[Music]
welcome to uncommon knowledge I'm Peter
Robinson a fellow at the Hoover
Institution Victor Davis Hanson is a
classicist and military historian who
has published more than two dozen books
including a war like no other his
acclaimed account of the Peloponnesian
wars dr. Hanson's most recent work the
case for Trump Victor welcome thank you
you write right here of Donald Trump
that he is and I am quoting you Victor
vulgar uncouth and divisive you also
write that you voted for him casting
that ballot how much regret how much
cognitive dissonance how hard was that
photo I have no regret it was very easy
because the alternative was Hillary
Clinton and I did take him at his word
that his promises would be largely kept
or attempted be kept and then when I
used those words in the larger context I
think I was comparing them to what to
what to JFK's frolicking in the pool to
LBJ's exhibitionism to build I don't
want to mention Bill Clinton but I think
we have historical amnesia about what
presidents are I would have liked him to
be a sterling moral exemplar like Jerry
Ford and Jimmy Carter but I don't not
sure there's any equation there between
that type of character and dynamic
leadership can all be wrong with Reagan
after all a sterling character and an
effective leader all right how Trump won
so the case for Trump you spend there
really a couple of cases in this book
one of them is the case for Trump yeah
but the other is the case for the
Americans who voted for Trump yes all
right
I'm quoting you here the case for Trump
voters in 2016
63 million of them preferred on a an
authentic bad boy to a disingenuous good
girl explain that well Trump was what he
was and he had no pretensions that he
wasn't so when he went to Fresno
he went to Tulare California he went to
Maine he went to Alabama he had on the
same jacket the same weird tie the hair
of everything when Hillary did it it was
you all down in Alabama and then she had
a Harvard accent when Obama does
campaign he had an inner city patois as
I mentioned John Kerry put on duck gear
when he went duck-hunting
Mike Dukakis put on the helmet remember
yes yes but he didn't and that squeeze
always the businessman from Queens
Queens accent wherever he was and the
other thing about him was he had a
strange way that nobody detected except
that people will reform up conveying
empathy so he's you said our our country
our vets our workers our farmers I can't
imagine Mitt Romney or John McCain who
were supposed to be far more empathetic
and he went to the remember he went to
West Virginia I love big beautiful coal
contrast that when Hillary Clinton said
I'm gonna put you out of work and shut
down the industry Obama had said the
same thing so there was a way that he
connected with the deplorable zs-- the
clingers irredeemable what john mccain
called the crazies in a way that we
didn't really expect that he would give
in his background and then so there's
the the personal authenticity but you
also draw out his agenda again I'm going
to they also you again I'm quoting the
case for Trump they the 63 million
people who voted for him also preferred
his agenda which represented quote the
antithesis to the Democratic Party of
Barack Obama which was increasingly
candid in voicing socialist broma yes so
it's it's their moments when I think
that all politics comes down to that old
Henny Youngman gag how's your wife
yeah that's answer compared to what yeah
so Trump comes across as authentic
somehow or other this guy from Queens
this billionaire from Queens seems to be
what he is there's an authenticity that
appeals to people in the middle of the
country and at the same time the
alternative is getting just unacceptable
- yes right that's the argument
the argument and what we're seeing now
with permissible infanticide or
reparations or Greendale or wealth tax
or seventy percent income tax or
Medicare for everybody or cancellation
of everything let's cancel electoral
college let's cancel ice let's cancel
all student debt all of that stuff is a
logical trajectory from the Obama
administration he was the one that took
the party remember when he was elected
he had the most partisan record in the
US Senate so that that's the antithesis
to Trump it was with Hillary it's even
gonna be more so in 2020 and then he did
something that nobody quite has analyzed
his his agenda wasn't some crazy alright
it was an 80% traditional Republican yes
yes deregulation lower taxes repeal
Obamacare good judges strict
constructions
what was new he looked at that electoral
college and he tweaked four or five
issues that the other 16 may have been
for but they didn't they didn't do it
and that was you can't have a sovereign
nation with an open border right you
can't have immigration unless it's legal
measured Mara Craddock and diverse now
that was a winning issue for those
states then he said if you're gonna go
overseas translate tactical success into
strategic advantage didn't help you if
you bomb Libya or Qaddafi out of power
or you you're bombing people in
Afghanistan if it's not resolved in our
interest and then he said China's not
fated to take over the world
they're not the Superman they have a
smaller economy they've got all sorts of
problems they are only strong because
they're asymmetrical and their trade and
we'll fix it and finally he said you
don't need a magic wand to restore the
interior it's not these number Obama
said these jobs are never coming back I
said they're not only gonna come back
they're gonna come back right away and
in large part that was true so that was
a new message but he wasn't the
Antichrist Republican he was a
traditional Republican that took some
issues incorporated them within
republicanism and then looked at
Michigan Wisconsin Pennsylvania
Iowa Ohio North Carolina and said you
didn't come out for John McCain or Mitt
Romney because there was something
missing in this menu and I'm gonna be
the person who puts it back in and then
finally one time sure sure sure it was a
messenger too because he was basically
saying I'm crude and crass getting back
to your quote at the beginning of our
conversation but he said I'm not playing
by the Marquess of Queensbury rules
candy crawl I'm you know ad libbing here
but if candy crawling in the second
debate tries to hide the second debate
with Mitt Romney yes when she said no no
no Governor Romney Brock Obama's correct
here he would have grabbed a mic like
Reagan did and he's not gonna say as
john mccain did I rule I just don't want
to mention Reverend right
so Trump was saying I'm gonna fight I'm
gonna fight there's gonna be a war room
I'm gonna go after the the left as they
go after you us and they nobody had seen
that since Lee Atwater in 1988 with the
tank commercial the Willie Horton
commercials George Bush's running for
reelection yeah or running for election
and so that was part I'm not condoning
it or I'm not excusing it or not
praising it I'm just saying that at this
point a lot of people would come out of
the woodwork conservative Reagan
Democrats Perot voters I don't know what
we call them Tea Party if they thought
somebody really wanted to win and that
they wouldn't get out ahead of the
candidate there was a lot of people said
all support if I support a Republican
candidate they'll know no sooner do I do
it then they say you shouldn't say that
oh you're too uncouth let's work across
the aisle then the supporter has got the
limb sawed off you came did that a lot
to a people Jeb Bush contrast Trump with
Jeb Bush well Jeb Bush said basically
that I'm a sober and judicious leader I
have all the right requisites I was
governor I meant from this dynasties a
great nice person he had some good ideas
but he said things by the way he'd been
a terrific governor I think his I think
he was and he was misrepresented okay
all right but I think he said illegal
immigration was an act of love I don't
think at the time that he ran people
wanted to go
to Afghanistan Iraq again I don't think
that they were into that adventurism
anymore after Libya I don't think that
they associated with his brother George
yes and okay I don't think I think the
bushes the Clintons everybody thought
globalization which is a good thing it's
a westernization it allows people in the
Amazon to have glasses or penicillin
gets too dark dark islands I mean dark
innocents have no electricity or no
civilization so it's good it brings
people up but it hollowed out the United
States it said anybody who has muscular
or physical labor that can be xeroxed
overseas will be xerox overseas and
that's a natural Darwinian process it's
good for you because it makes us all
more efficient we get cheaper stuff that
comes in and then you'll have to find
learn how to code or go to the fracking
fields and Trump said no we got cheap
energy our electricity is cheaper than
theirs we've got cheaper national gas
we've got great workers this these these
were the muscles of America they will be
again one more contrast with a
Republican whom he defeated in the
primary and that's Ted Cruz I sort of I
can understand the argument as it
applies to Jeb Bush Marco Rubio that in
a way they're they're well-behaved
they're genteel and there was an what
people recognized in Trump was a fighter
but Ted Cruz it was also a fighter
how did Trump defeat Cruz what what did
he have on Cruz well Cruz is the last
man standing in the fight for the
nomination to who's the last man the
trophy and that that's not an accident
the two people of that seventeen person
field the right as you as you're
suggesting that were the most combative
and wanted to take the argument to the
enemy so theoretically I don't mean
actual enemy but so the adversaries were
cruising and the right difference was
Trump was a professional reality TV star
he made his money in repart t you're the
first I'll give you an example the first
debate Rand Paul was it I there's
certain things I like about Rand Paul
but he said you're the Nexus basically
I'm
paraphrasing your the nexus between
money and influence he said that to
Trump yes right
Trump looked around how do I get out of
this one right and he said yes I am and
you came up to my office and I brought
you out a check for $10,000 and we got
along perfectly after that Ted Cruz
would have not said that but that's what
Trump because you don't really say that
about somebody and he's basically saying
to Rand Paul you did something as
unethically as I did when you're
supposed to say neither one of us would
ever do anything on ethically right from
Trump was this is guy who actually
wrestled in a wrestling mat you know yes
and so his idea was there's nothing I
can do that is going to embarrass me and
are my and that was baked into his
support with his voters all right
according to Victor Davis Hanson Donald
Trump's most enduring significance is
that he understood those in between the
case for Trump elite on this is on the
state of the country when Trump was
elected elitists not subject to the
ramifications of their own policies
ruled from on top the subsidized poor
answered them from far below both those
on top and the subsidized poor both
barely disguised a shared disdain for
the struggles of those in between
explain them well what I was trying to
say is that almost every issue there was
a virtue signaling component by which
the Advocate assumed that because of his
influence or power or superior wisdom or
ally he should be as I said exempt from
the ramifications own ideology take
walls border walls everybody's against
border walls but yet if you and I were
to drive two miles out in a flow we know
what we'd find would sign the old
community after another yes we go up to
Nancy Pelosi as a state we go to Mark
Zuckerberg the state and we can't get in
ya know if we were going to talk about
cutting off water so that the fish could
rehab it have it habituate the
Sacramento
San Joaquin River we wouldn't do it with
Hetch Hetchy watch at water that comes
to this area that's that you just don't
do that we all believe in the public
schools the bedrock over but not for my
children they're gonna go over and I
just went back up so the Hetch Hetchy
the the water that's being used that
were in the Delta that we're drinking
right now that comes from Hetch Hetchy
yes and no but no good liberal here in
Northern California would suggest
putting feeding and putting fish in it
only water to revive the fish population
comes from the farmers yes those are
people those are four little people and
Fresno got it and the same thing about
private schools the whole Avenue so he
comes in and he says the Trump comes
into this great swath in between and
says people are lecturing and virtue
signaling and using you not just you
know economically politically or
socially but psychologically by that I
think he meant although he wasn't
explicit he was saying that and we saw
this with the College Admission scandal
recently that the people who are most
likely to say you have white privilege
you have white privilege you have white
have it themselves and they point out
other people that don't so some person
of the Oklahoma diaspora you know in the
Central Valley yeah in Bakersfield who's
the grandson of a welder or a son of a
carpet he didn't have any white
privilege and yet he's told all the time
he has white privilege he'd be much
better for his admissions to be
one-quarter Hispanic or half
african-american or any type of a
minority classification or of a larger
white class white class I mean if he was
wealthy he could go to sack camp he
could call people up he could do what
these people did that was the
photographer's Gandil yeah or they if he
had more money you didn't have to do the
tawdry Avenue he could go straight
through the front door and say here's
ten million dollars for that builder
you're right so that's what he was
trying to say he was saying to these
people you're the Forgotten people you
don't have any privilege you're the
losers of globalization but you don't
have the romance of the poor and you
don't have the connect
with a culture of the wealthy and they
dumped on you and they dumped on you and
they dumped on you and they talked about
swapping you out bringing immigrants in
I'm speaking literally yes yes and so
that was a resonant that's raised the
guy was raised now he was raised in
Queens but he was raised in a pretty
wealthy enclave in Queens yes and so
there are a couple of mysteries here
with Donald Trump is his parents were
wealthy yeah as he was with from the
moment he was born here's but it's not
as if they made the no no no he was born
into a rich family he went to an Ivy
League school
he had one chance after another to turn
himself into a pinstripe wearing yeah
wingtip shoe wearing very urbane
polished rich man in Manhattan and he
did turn himself into a rich man in
Manhattan he took his father's you know
real estate empire and and continued it
and put up buildings before he went into
the casinos and then before he went into
television he was a builder but he was
always the guy from Queens and somehow
or other how does the guy for a rich guy
how does a rich kid from Queens which is
what he is a rich kid from New York
identify because the grandson of a
welder in Bakersfield was always an
outsider and he wanted it to be
successful he all he found out very
quickly and he could build the skate
skating rink in Central Park or he could
redo a hotel but he was never gonna be
fully accepted given the way that his
father was kind of shady they thought a
Manhattan I would say he wasn't a
premier builder he was he had a lot of
tenants apartment buildings of poor
people that accent outer borough and
then the second thing is that he was a
builder he wasn't he didn't make his
money if you look if we look at the top
20 fortunes in America I would imagine
75% of them are high finance media and
high tech he actually built things
well that would meant that he needed to
work with unions he needed to know who
the cement workers were the Tyler's the
carpenters the electricians and people
would say that he would as he walked
around he actually liked those people
because he understood that he couldn't
do what he
does without them and that so it I think
there was an empathy for those people in
a way at least he could talk to them
whether he was sent sincere or not I
don't know but I do know that he
developed him and ease of being able to
communicate with people from all
different classes and that they did like
him I talked to a New Yorker pretty
important person I guess I asked him if
you had a a to F list in New York and
they'd probably do where would the
trumps be and it would be F F right D
not an 8 not an A List and I don't think
he would he may have been hurt by that I
don't think ultimately he care so he was
an outsider and he felt that the East
Coast West Coast globalised
close to elite we're talking to
themselves they had a certain Marcus of
Queensbury rules Republican of acting
and campaigning and people in the middle
said you can be amoral and be sober
injudicious it's not very moral to have
no 3% GDP for over a decade right it's
not very moral to go overseas and take
us and not translate that optional
intervention into a strategic victory
it's not very moral to have high
minority unemployment and he hit on
something I don't think there's I mean
it doesn't mean you're gonna be crass
you're a good leader but he was just
saying the two greatest people that we
know as far as her sterling characters
are probably Jimmy Carter and Jerry Ford
back to back and they were they were
fine men and ineffective president yes
it doesn't mean there's a connection but
it does show you don't have to be a
saint to be a effective leader okay
I wanted to part for a moment from
Donald Trump and talk about you yes you
are a professional academic yes you got
a doctorate as a young man by writing a
brilliant book on ancient Greece you've
produced book after book after book your
book on the Peloponnesian wars is a is
was acclaimed everywhere it was reviewed
even by people who was Paul
takes differ from yours and yet modern
American academia is almost monolithic
and its revulsion for Trump and one
professional academic Victor Davis
Hanson writes the case for Trump okay
let me quote you I grew up and still
live outside a small town in
California's Central Valley
in 1970 we didn't lock our doors in 2018
I have six guard dogs what did it mean
to you
living continuing to live in Selma that
small town south of Fresno and what was
it that happened in Selma between 1970
and 2018 that made you know how about
what week so this okay this week the
last four days there were three miles
from me somebody was driving he made a
u-turn in the middle of the road and
killed somebody who happen to be
mexican-american and then he got out of
the car and left four miles north of
town somebody ran a stop sign and hit a
trucker almost killed him and got out of
the car and left last night two miles
from me a man and the bicycle was shot
and killed
I ride a bicycle I used to around my
area so what I'm getting at is when you
bring in a lot of people from southern
Mexico the poorest part and most of the
people coming in our area are from
Oaxaca and they're not legal and they do
not speak English and they don't have
skills and they don't have capital and
they don't have a high school diploma
then and you do it in mass so they're
there not with Punjabis and African
Americans and whites so they can
integrate we know what makes the melting
pot work measured Mara Craddock diverse
immigration then you're going to have a
social economic problem and you're going
to need a lot of state help education
law enforcement legal help to give the
semblance of parity and it's not going
to work very well so what happened and
you combine that with globalization and
what I would call a lotta foo Nia were
corporate agriculture
economies of scale and vertical
integration so what I'm saying so when
you grew up
I just want to judge when you were
growing up you were which generation at
that ranch you were I was number five
fifth generation Swedes at that ranch in
Selma and you you're your mom and dad
ran what a couple hundred acres and 128
128 we've all worked on it but here's
the point and that would have been a
fairly standard size it looked like a a
checkers board every family ranches and
family of caseta we're on one side the
owners were on the other the Israeli ins
the hazel hoppers the artists it was
real diversity by the way
mexican-american Armenian American
Japanese American Punjabi America okay
and since that time to nobody they're
gone two things have happened one is
globalization yes has made it impossible
to run a family operation economically
is that correct yeah I rent my 40 acres
out to a wonderful man who has 12,000
acres of almonds he's a wonderful guy
but he has 12,000 acres of almonds and
so the family operation is so what
happened with all these houses where all
these houses are still there but they're
rented by people from Mexico so one of
across the street from me the North
Angels gang just had his shootout and it
was wild and I mean I'm and I won't
mention it because I don't want to be
shot but I have three neighbors that are
in gangs so that's what happened I say
the second thing is that you get this
huge influx largely yes substantially
illegal yeah and nobody voted for that
nobody that takes place it to the
contrary that takes place in defiance of
them remember there was no principle to
it so when you go back and see Hillary
Clinton and Bill Clinton and Chuck
Schumer railing against illegal
immigration it was still a hundred
thousand people a year and they were
worried about undercutting
wages right and when Cesar Chavez was
trying to organize agriculture he went
as here in California yes he went down
to the border with clubs and tried to
stop people from coming because he felt
that illegal immigration would drive
down wages and he was right
so all of this influx came and wages
went down for workers and as part of
globalization employers liked it and the
fruit off trailer went the upright
harvester went anything the del Monte
can we went they were all shut down or
went overseas the middle class moved out
the Corp the people bought all the land
on top very medieval in California and
then very cheap labor came in from
Mexico and our South America I have no
problem with that but I really get angry
about what changed Schumer and Pelosi
and Bill Clinton was the idea there was
now so many people 20 million perhaps
are Ivy League studies that and the
second generation 20 million in
California or no country Nate nationwide
that would came here illegally another
second generation some case third
generation right and they're going to
vote Democratic so they flipped
California they flipped Nevada they flip
New Mexico in from a red to blue or
purple to blue state so it was a
political decision it wasn't based on
the merits sanctuary cities became the
gospel when they felt that that was a
winning political issue okay but it
wasn't based on a principle that people
coming in should be illegal the name of
the town again is Selma your town where
five generations of Henson six now have
lived
Selma's remaining native poorer White's
ethnics and second and third generation
Mexican Americans who would not or could
not leave live in a town that has been
transformed those changes were mostly a
result of the laxity of immigration
enforcement and import of expensive
labor as you've just described and
globalized trade policy as you as a
witch you've also spoken about their
once prosperous and stable community did
not deserve to erode something bad
happened to decent people through no
fault of their own and because you live
there you saw it with your own eyes I
did and another thing I saw is that and
this is a heresy to say that some of the
people who got hurt the most for Mexican
America
second and third generation because in
their neighborhoods this influx went
into their schools and suddenly they
didn't have very good Advanced Placement
because a third of the student body
couldn't speak English or suddenly in
Norte no source Irenaeus or m13 gang
member would make fun of a second
generation mexican-american because he
could not speak Spanish or he'd call him
a term and Spanish for sellout or Uncle
Tom or something of that nature and so
when Trump came along for all of the
sensational racialized tension that we
were supposed to think that he that he
harbored for Mexico and Mexican
Americans 30% he did as well as Mitt
Romney or John McCain and I have a
feeling in the next election he could
get thirty five to forty five percent of
the Hispanic well now that just seems
crazy but when you talk to people in the
ground they'll say things like I got
very ill of I got very tired of this
family of gang members from Oaxaca so I
called I so they deported them and now
they're calling me on a cell phone from
Oaxaca and threatening me
what am I gonna do I hear that or a
personal just said to me did you I was
in Walmart they said did you read about
this guy who just ran a stop sign and he
hit a truck and then he took off I said
yes it's the same thing happened to me
these are not Atherton residents
Atherton residents or Malibu residents
want that system to continue I mean the
I shouldn't say that that's unfair they
want the the the factors or the ideas or
the principles that can lead to that to
continue with the people who really sell
they will pay no price yet oh they have
walls they put their kids in prep
schools they have guaranteed jobs yeah
but the people who suffer the
consequences of those ideologies are
often mexican-american and so I have a
feeling that Trump is I guess what we're
saying is that he's trying to do
something that nobody really thought you
could do in America in the age of
identity politics he's trying to
redefine it as class differences and
this is from a multi-million billion
dollar
guy in New York he's trying to say to
african-americans I got your wages up
for the first time three percent
increase in working wages for the middle
class
I got minority unemployment down to
record lows illegal immigration is not
in your interest it drives down your
wages abortion is not in your interest
abortion is much more common among
Mexican American and black unwed mothers
and it's not in its wiping out that
community and we don't want that we want
you we need you that's a pretty strong
message that we haven't heard any
politician or much less a Republican
voice and so I think that even though he
can be quote coarse and crude there's a
certain populism that cuts across
identity politics lines because it's the
old class argument that you're the
Forgotten people so you you spend some
time here of course you published you're
writing this book is he's coming up on
two years two and a half years so
there's still time in the first term let
alone any question about whether he'll
be reelected so any reckoning has to be
partial and so forth but you think he
did a pretty good job yeah
domestically at home I'm quoting you the
case for Trump at home the economy at
Trump's first 600 days was better than
any time in the last decade massive
deregulation stepped up energy
production tax cuts and talking up the
American brand produced an economic
upswing as evidenced by gross domestic
product growth as a roaring stock market
and record low unemployment so two
things to be observed about that one is
that's a very compelling domestic record
yeah and the second is that's completely
conventional Republican or conservative
politics I think it is a welcome except
for the we don't know that we effects
because he hasn't lower the trade
deficit but he's put allies rivals and I
should say enemies right on notice that
they're going to have to reduce their
trade surpluses and trade reciprocally
okay so and now foreign policy again the
case for Trump abroad monthly incidents
of Iranian hazing of US forces which
were going on in the previous
administration have remained
non-existent
nonexistent in the straits of hormuz
they're not trying to shoot missiles at
a carrier or they're not trying to cut
in front of a destroyer or they're not
trying to hijack a boat so the question
is why because they're scared of this
guy because he's wanna seeee because
he's unpredictable and they have no idea
what he's gonna do if Donald Trump if
tomorrow secretary John Bolton calls up
Donald Trump and says the Iranians just
put shot a missile right across the bow
of the of you know the George Bush the
carrier carrier I don't know what he
would do you don't know what he would do
and neither do they and they don't know
so all the things he's criticized in
foreign policy of being unpredictable
unpredictability as an advantage in
diplomacy North Korea well I mean he I
was taken back when he said little
rocket man but then Arta if you read
those serial ghostwritten are the deal
books it is to act unconventional to
scream and yell but always they have in
the back of your mind that you're gonna
ask for 70 80 90 % of a deal then take
55 and then praise your your interlock
would torso no sooner did he do little
locket man than he was saying he wrote a
love letter to me and he's a great guy
and the left went nuts they hated him
when he said he was when he used a
little Rocket Man they hated him when he
said kim jeong-hoon was a good guy but
what they didn't get is that's how he
Trump tries to deal to be unpredictable
to go back and forth but the real
question is have they curtail their
testing and missiles and nuclear devices
I think they have Israel he moved the
American excuse me I have to we have to
state this correctly it has been a
matter of American law it has that the
embassy should be moved from Tel Aviv to
Jerusalem and Donald Trump is the one
who simply did it he fulfilled yes a a
statutory requirement that Congress
enacted well over a decade ago so he
moved the embassy to Jerusalem but he
did it in conformance with Allah duly
passed by the United States Congress
what he has done off his own though is
issue a statement recognizing Israel
Israeli sovereignty over the Golan high
shaking up the middle-east a little too
much here well he got out of the Iran
deal and he said that the Palestinians
would not be getting money channeled to
the UN from the United States and
basically in 1947 46 48 there were 30 or
40 million refugees there was Jews that
were refugees that were kicked out of
the Middle East and sent back to Israel
there were 13 million Germans that
walked back into Germany
none of those persecuted whether they're
volga germans and russia
none of those persecuted groups today
are called refugees right so Trump came
in and said I don't understand what's
the difference
and so he he did all of the things that
everybody who said they were pro-israel
we're gonna do and then this is what I
think there's a tragic nature to this as
soon as he had done them the people said
well he has his fingerprints on those
issues and I don't want them now so a
lot of the people who had supported
these and I had read I mean a lot of the
nevertrump right and said we got to move
that embassy we got to get out of that
Iran deal gotta get on that Paris
climate Accord we got to just recognize
reality the Palestinians idea of a
refugee is all of a sudden
Trump is too mercurial accomplished too
brash Trump a sabre-rattling Trump is
unprofessional and I guess it's style
over substance I don't know what creates
the schizophrenia but we're in a very
strange time where people the 10% of
Republicans who didn't vote for him or
they never Trump elite they've basically
said all of the issues or most of the
issues that I embraced for most of my
life I can't do it anymore because
Trump's for them but so we see the
argument of your book is a that Trump
understood millions of Americans who'd
been effectively forgotten or overlooked
even by Republicans and be that as it
turns out that is not all that he did
that whereas many Republicans thought
finally granted maybe he's seen
something maybe he's established a
connection with the voters that the rest
of us couldn't but he doesn't know what
he's doing it'll be a mess and you're
saying that's not the so he has put
together a very impressive substantive
record he has that is your argument I
don't think somebody I mean I can't
think of a better Secretary of State and
Mike Pompeo he's had two great national
security advisors with a mr. I won't get
into the Flynn I have feelings on that
but HR McMaster and John Bolton
he's got good appointments but most of
that is the defense matters our former
colleague at defense when he was
basically saying as the post-war order
was pretty good but when we created it
there was no German miracle there was no
Japan Japanese miracle Europe was
destroyed there was no Russia was
destroyed China didn't really exist as
an economic power there was no Jap Japan
Inc there was no tiger economies there
was us and we could afford to take the
hit we could run up deficits we could
supply the world and we did that for 70
we intervened here we intervened there
we kept the World Order we kept patents
we kept copyright law we made it
possible to travel to communicate to
ship to trade all within the aegis of
American diplomatic and military budget
and taking a hit with asymmetrical trade
because we were so rich and the world
was flat was a wonderful thing we did
all Trump said was I'm not going to get
rid of NATO I just don't quite
understand why this EU economy which is
about the size of ours they can't figure
yeah they can't spend a measly 2 percent
of their GDP on defense and I can't
understand why Japan and in and Taiwan
and South Korea might want not one or
help and I don't really don't think that
you know 75 years after World War two I
got a subsidized a 71 billion dollar
trade deficit with Mexico a 65 billion
won with Germany they don't seem to be
particularly fond of us that was just
heresy I mean people just said he's
destroying NATO he's destroying the
post-world War II just say I'm updating
it Victor here's an argument that you'll
hear from the left but also from the
nevertrump right and I think I'm doing
this is the nasty thing to raise but I
but you deal with it in the book and you
know you've been getting hit with this
on this book circuit so it's the racism
sure
all right and here we have Gabriel
Schoenfeld who's a former Romney advisor
he's writing in the bulwark quote racism
is America's original sin by the way he
he cites Trump's remarks during the
Charlottesville incident and then he
cites Trump this was during the campaign
when he questioned whether a certain
federal judge would be able to render a
favorable opinion because he was a
Mexican I think Trump said he was a
Mexican he met Mexican America but still
he questioned his ability to his
impartiality because of his ethnic
background okay and then Gabriel
Schoenfeld writes racism as America's
original sin yet with a drumbeat
of racially charged remarks emanating
from the White House Trump has been
setting the nation back to a darker time
Hanson's treatment of trump's odious
lifelong record in matters of race his
sophist tree in the service of a genuine
evil no he should be ashamed about
remark Gabriel Schoenfeld said because
for two reasons one he didn't read the
entire text of what he said in
Charlotte's will I know what upset yes
you may have been sloppy he should have
understood the climate the landscape the
geography of racial discourse but he did
say there's this group and there's an
Tifa and then there's a good group it
has a right to protest and there's this
group when he didn't break down the
percentages and there were white awful
nationalists and he said I don't like
those people you read what he said and
then there were other people that were
good they were good and these are the
people who objected to the toppling of
statues in the case of judge Korea all I
said in the book that I thought you
shouldn't my mother was a judge you
shouldn't impair or you shouldn't attack
the efficacy of a judge number one
number two I live in an area that's 90%
mexican-american when I talk to people I
said you know Joe and now they will say
to me yeah he's a Mexican guy they don't
say he's a Mexican America they don't
call me a Swedish American they don't
call another guy an Oklahoma in America
and they say he's an oak that's just the
way it is and Trump should have known
that you don't supposed to say
publicly but that's what everybody does
number two just Korea was a member of
the Lavazza lawyer so in Chuck Trump
clumsily said he's in a Mexican group he
is and I don't think any judge would
want to be a participant in the National
Council of the race and if I'm wrong
then the National Council of La Raza had
no reason to change their name two years
ago why did they change it I didn't I
didn't force them to you didn't they
said you know what we don't want to be
in something called the National Council
of the race so they change it to Unidos
United you know and remember and I
mentioned this the book and schnefeld
knows out that word came from Franco
Spain it was reintroduced in the United
States after it got would we address it
Raza
I'm the Latin professor it's come from
Roddick's it doesn't just mean the
people or the tribe as they say it does
it means a racial component yes Franco
and Mussolini twosies in Italian drop
that word in to say if you're a Spaniard
and you speak Spanish and you live in
the Iberian Peninsula you're still not
Spanish
unless you've got racial purity and
that's where the Chicano Movement picked
it up in the 60s and finally finally mr.
Schoenfeld should remember where we are
in the political discourse joe biden
said and i will collate what joe biden
and harry reid said about barack obama
he said he's the first candidate that
can speak without a negro dialect joe
biden said he's biden said that of rock
obama obama he said he's clean
what does that mean we've had a
candidate that ran for president
I remember Barbara Jordan there was no
more articulate brilliant speaker but to
say that Barack Obama was the first time
and that both Reed and Joe Biden said
that Joe Biden went in and said they're
gonna put you all back and change you
think that a crowd of African American
community would even allow that to
happen who they're not
their freedom was dependent on their own
initiative and US law but to say that in
pander racially ister Bill Clinton said
you know it was quoted he said Barack
Obama would have been serving us coffee
so what I'm getting at is that I got a
when Trump went into these racially
charged arenas he shouldn't have said
anything
but if he's going to say something what
he says should be looked at the
transcript of what he actually said and
then what is the allowances for slang
for adhoc we party I don't know what it
is but he didn't say as Barack Obama did
they Clint of a white community they
cling to their giant guns or he didn't
say it was own grandma she's a typical
typical white person or his personal
pastor personal pastor Barack Obama
president nighted States I'd like mr.
Schoenfeld to explain this to me why did
he say the Reverend Jeremiah Wright I
can't talk to Obama anymore because them
Jews won't let me speak to him and he
had a long history of anti-semitism why
did it rock Obama allow himself to be
photographed with Louis Farrakhan an
absent racist and anti-semite so if
we're going to get down and adjudicate
everybody's pedigree of everything
they've said and everything they've done
let's just do it
I'll be happy to do it I think it would
be great and I'll criticize Trump but I
will also criticize Joe Biden and I will
criticize what you criticized so your
argument is that at a time when racial
pandering does take place Trump is
guilty of making mistakes of speaking
loosely but he is not a racist I don't
think he is I think that when he went
down I'll give you an example when he
went into Palm Beach all of the
powers-that-be did not want him to build
that more Lago Country Club one of the
reasons he did is Trump didn't really
care who came into it as long as they
were wealthy if you were Cuban American
if you were Jewish American Trump loved
you in fact the more money the better
and I don't think his critics realized
that Trump Trump is a plutocrat money is
the standard by which he judges success
and failure not race you can criticize
that but it's it's it's he's not a
racist Victor
trumpism is there a legacy is there
something of permanence building here
the state I've got to read a couple of
long ish Co tations but they set
something up that's important you do not
surprisingly you being you you deal with
important matters here the state of the
Republican Party before Trump as you
write in the case for Trump the idea of
protecting customs traditions and the
continuity of a broad land owning and
small business middle class had been
essential to classical republicanism
from the Romans who built the Republic
to England's working-class citizens who
resisted European revolutions in such a
conservative tradition the hallowed and
vibrant middle class was more grounded
than the often self-indulgent rich and
more careful and common sensical than
the poor you know talking about
Republicans yet you're talking about the
conservative tradition that reaches all
the way back to the Roman Republic
now among Republicans this is at the as
Trump comes along there was no longer a
viable social and cultural conservatism
of the sort outlined by Edmund Burke or
embodied by Ronald Reagan himself a
self-made man from the Midwest okay in
Republican dogma nothing was static
nothing sacred
the quaint idea of a sixth generation
family farm like yours as something of
intrinsic value to grounding regional
society depended only on how wise each
generation was in adapting to market
reality summed up brutally the
Republican position meant that for the
market to enrich society there would
have to be winners and losers okay
so it's settled I all of that is is
actually quite movingly puddin of you
being you you're the historical
illusions this is all very very powerful
but here's what it comes down to maybe
what it comes down to is Trump saying
the Hansen family farm has value and I
grant you that so I will now deploy the
coercive powers of the state in behalf
of the middle class of small business
owner
and of rural Americans and once Trump
says that and if that becomes the
Republican position then the difference
in principle between the progressives
and the Democrats who have their
interest groups the teachers unions the
urban poor and so forth there's no
difference in principle they have their
interest groups and Republicans and
conservatives have their favorite groups
and it's just slugging it out every four
years to see who's going to be able to
grasp the apparatus of the state and
deploy it on behalf of their interest
groups where is the national interest in
this okay you see I do you're describing
the EU and France it's a control economy
and it's got an emic growth and it it
impoverishes everybody in its effort to
create to preserve these provincial
towns but but it does though does and
culture here was the idea in the United
States that we get 3% GDP by not doing
that yep
and Trump comes along and says we're
gonna get three percent GDP and I'm
gonna deregulate and I'm gonna push tax
cuts and I don't care how many wealthy
people that's what he did right but
along with that I'm not going to control
turn us into France but I'm going to say
I'm going to force our jawbone or
persuade companies that shut down for a
to go outsource or to offshore or
foreign companies that don't play
symmetrically I'm going to - and I'll
give you an example from personal so I
was farming it was $1,400 a ton 1982 a
ton for raisin yes I was in 1982 and I
was farming a hundred and twenty acre
farm and all of a sudden the EU was on
the horizon and the Greeks got subsidies
so they were telling German bakers and
Dutch bakers if you buy our raisins
we're gonna be part of your community
let's start these and they got about a
four or five hundred dollar subsidy or
more cutting you by 30% oh yes so nobody
bought raisins and the domestic market
was not a big enough for thing so the
price went from fourteen hundred to four
hundred
and that meant that everybody within the
early all in the early eighties yes a
couple 83 to 86 and this was during the
Reagan shakeout Paul Volcker get rid of
the stagflation okay so everybody was
destroyed I mean it I saw people kill
themselves I saw alcoholics I saw em my
family would eventually go broke okay I
talked to some people from the
Republican Party and they said this to
me and a person from the raisin board
from Washington this is good for you
Victor so why is it good for me you're
gonna be more competitive so the persons
who survive will learn how to make $400
raisins and and then they won't be able
to sustain that that subsidy is one day
Greece will go broke they were kind of
right 30 years later with the EU and
then you'll be more you the consumer
will have cheaper raisins and I said
actually the consumer I doubt because
the the middleman will take up the
profit we'll all be dead when you know
and the only person that can can make it
on 400 is vertically-integrated that has
packing and trucking and can subsidize
the actual farming law this is just what
happens that's exactly what happened but
what I'm getting at is you could have
had a balance a little bit about it
destroyed the entire community it wiped
out families people left I I saw things
that I they're still not I wrote a book
about it fields of our dreams and I
don't think that that creative
destruction at all cost needs to be the
mantra the Republican Party they can say
we only we know free-market economics is
the only thing that works market
capitalist we're going to do that but we
understand the dislocations that are
involved and when they are involved
we're going to pay psychological
attention cultural attention political
attentions to the losers and make sure
that they're not losing we're not gonna
write off the middle of these so you
accept so so so so you accept the
markets you accept there will be winners
and then losers but you're going to help
the losers yeah I think the Republican
Party it's basically said the Democrats
a monopoly on helping people who are
victims and will just make the economy
better for everybody and all boats will
rise and will win but they hadn't won
its in five or the last six elections
they hadn't won the popular vote they
hadn't won 51% since 1988 this is why
they were winning at local and state and
1000 offices during Obama but they
couldn't win at the national level
because they nominated people like Bob
Dole and I I love George W Bush but they
nominated the bushes and they nominated
I mean he did win we didn't win the
popular vote once and they nominate John
McCain and Mitt Romney and the message
that was transmitted to Michigan and
Ohio and Wisconsin rural Minnesota rural
Illinois was that you guys are losers
and you know what I think colleague of
mine nationally you said the answer is
getting a pickup and go frack just pull
up stakes that's the good American we're
going go east or go south young man I
understand the logic behind it but it
didn't have to it didn't have to come
off that way
and they didn't they didn't get it they
thought themselves he Trump is so crass
he's so crude he's so uncouth there's no
way in the world that he will appeal to
these in a way that that's John Kasich
voters that Scott Walker's voters and I
had written a column I said this is
ironic he's gonna out pop your be about
populist those two guys who are really
populace who came from the middle
classes and he did because they were not
voicing somehow Donald Trump's message
is in some way it's the same message as
Ronald Reagan vote for me I'm one of you
yeah I think it is and I think that's
what I wrote the book to do two things
to tell the deplorable Zanu irredeemable
that there was a logical case
historically and analytically for their
vote and to to tell people on the left
and right just put away your prejudices
and your stereotypes and ask yourself
how a person for the first time in
american history without political or
military experience one without
calling up the Council on Foreign
Relations without consulting the Hoover
Institution they're broken and what does
that say about persons empathy and
credentials it says a lot it's means
that people that were coming out of Yale
Law School or Harvard Business School or
Harvard Law School and were praised for
their dishes and their erudite speech
and their sober and judicious comport
man and their resumes they couldn't get
3% GDP he couldn't win in Afghanistan
they just couldn't restore the middle
I'm not saying Trump will do all that
but that was what the message that I was
trying to get out it's a paradox on
irony I still don't have the answers
completely after writing the book
last question Victor Trump is tragic
hero yeah well I've been criticized for
that Clint Eastwood's inspector Dirty
Harry Dirty Harry Callahan cannot serve
as the official face of the San
Francisco Police Department you're
talking about the movie here any more
than Donald Trump could appear
presidential in the fashion of Barack
Obama but Dirty Harry has the skills and
ruthlessness to ensure that the mass
murderer Scorpio will never harm the
innocent again close quote
so you are arguing from draw from Dirty
Harry and from high noon and from Greece
Spain and offically Zajac Sophocles
they're not all the same obviously I try
to get as many different archetypes as I
could from history and literature and
George S Patton George Patton and he
criticism a and what I'm saying is that
in Western societies consensual
societies they reach periods of crises
where the established norms now I'm not
talking about doing something illegally
or unethically but the established
protocols cannot really marshal itself
against an existential threat so then
within their ranks there are people who
they would never consult in times of
leisure and peace and affluence that
come to the fore if we didn't have
George Patton on the Third Army we would
have not got to the Rhine almost in
September if Curtis LeMay had not run
the b-29 program it would have failed if
Shane had not written in there wouldn't
have been
thus I saw Buster community Jack Palance
would have taken the little whole thing
but the very solutions that they offer
and that can be successful come with a
baggage of an outsider and uncivilized
and uncouthness that as they become more
successful the community for the first
time has the luxury to say you know what
GDP is pretty good on employment is
pretty good I wish Trump wouldn't tweet
so much I just don't I don't feel
comfortable with that I said that was
the last question but I told the lie
this is the last question the case for
Trump he's going to pay and you say he's
going to pay Trump will end in one of
two fashions neither particularly good
either spectacular but unacknowledged
accomplishments followed by ostracism
what he's out of office and no longer
useful or less likely a single term
doing to do to the eventual
embarrassment of his beneficiaries as if
his utility is no longer worth the wages
of his perceived crudit he wins a
second term but at the end of that he's
gone and ostracized or he might not even
win a second term he may be driven from
office in 18 months I said that it was
less likely that he would not win I
think he will win he's had his polling
where Barack Obama and Bill Clinton were
at this time he did better in the Senate
in the house and both of them did his
polls are about as I said about the same
he's running against a weaker agenda
than Hillary Clinton's the Democratic
Party yes and they're - yeah they're
farther to the left and he has a record
and the Mueller investigation think for
all practical purposes is over with but
that being said even if he is elected I
think he will be he's not gonna be
invited to a post presidential funeral
cadre he's not going the next presidents
not going to say you know I called up
George W Bush in his 80s I called up
Barack Obama and I called up Donald
Trump for advice it's just not gonna
happen and that's partly because of the
way he is and partly that he did things
that you were not supposed to do was
almost we'd rather not be successful and
fail or
be static in a particular way of
comportment accent behavior and I think
that paradox also explains one final
thing of the tragic hero
it's Sophocles Ajax's wins all the time
why didn't people understand I was a
best guy after Achilles Shayne kind of
looks around so it's time I got to get
out of this place
Trump wants it he's obsessed all the
time with why doesn't he get credit you
know he'll tweet and say great GDP media
doesn't say anything he'll even say
things like if if I was a Democrat
millennia would be the new Jackie
Kennedy and the tragic hero can't quite
fathom why his record of success is
never is never given the proper
recognition because to recognize that
they would have to look at themselves
and say I'm not part of the community
that I tried to help and one of the
reasons that and I'll finished with this
so he's an outsider even now yeah one of
the reasons that we do this is Trump
success whether we like it or not is a
referendum on the status quo credentials
of a president and the class that
produces presidents and the class that
produces wise men and experts and what
Trump is really doing whether he knows
it or not is saying all you guys that
get up and get on a tractor every
morning all you guys that work in a shop
all you long-distance truck drivers I
had think I think you have a lot more
expertise and common sense than a guy
with a bunch of letters after their name
PhD MBA and that's a very scary idea
Victor Davis Hanson fellow at the Hoover
Institution your classicist military
historian and the author of the case for
Trump Victor thank you thank you for
uncommon knowledge the Hoover
Institution and Fox Nation I'm Peter
Robinson
[Music]
you